Comprehensive report: age and history app
1. Introduction

The history app is a fun way for students to learn about history; it incorporates things students will find more familiar and fun, such as technology .it is a mobile application that compares the users age to the age of famous dead people in history. I have tried to combine education with entertainment to make a fun learning experience for young students. 

2. Purpose of the App
The purpose of the history app is to encourage young minds to engage in history. To do this we have incorporated learning history into a fun mobile application that is very easy to use and built to cater to the younger generation. By comparing the users age to the age of these people in history they can also learn fun facts and quotes that will help them to learn in a way much different as compared to a textbook. This applies will revolutionize how kids learn history and change the way teachers teach. Our application will encourage children and students to want to learn about history and this will greatly benefit everyone. This will be extremely beneficial because the world is moving to a more technologically advanced era and its important that we keep up with the times. Especially when it comes to any type of education and the education systems as that is the main building blocks to the future generation. Our society will then only grow exponentially.
Key Objectives:
•	It provides educational information to the user about historical figures in a fun format.
•	It creates interest in history and encourages curiosity among students.
•	Uses technology to make the learning process seem fun and more interactive.


3. Design Considerations
3.1 User Interface Design
The user interface is designed to give users a pleasant and well-rounded experience. The design is very simple and easy to use, allowing users to navigate and use the app even if they have little experience with using technology in the past. The design contains pictures of crucial moments in history that will help the users feel more comfortable and immersed in the application. This helps it seem as if they really are going back in time to magnificent these moments.  Furthermore, we have integrated vibrant colors that will help the app pop and make it seem more desirable to use.  We have also considered the background colors and how they contrast to allow the text to be clear and readable. We have also altered the colors of the buttons and changed some of the font. Some of the button sizes were also altered to make the text appear more clearly. Constraints were also made on each picture, button, etc.… to ensure that it stays in place for an easier experience. This all creates a user-friendly interface that is appealing to students.
3.2 Age Comparison Feature
The main function of the application is to compare users age to historical figures in history. It allows users to input their age or any age into the application and compare. This feature will make users relate more and encourage then to learn more about these people. 
3.3 Educational Content
The app not only shows you who was the same age as you when they died but also gives background information, their accomplishments and significance about them as well as some quotes that they were famous for. This will help in educating users, which is the main function. This will make learning history fun. 

4. Utilization of GitHub and GitHub Actions
4.1 Version Control with GitHub
I used git hub as a version control system to control the development of this application. Git hub was very useful, I used it for basically everything. It was extremely helpful. It helped me whenever I was stuck and had errors. I could literally ask for help from other people, and they could tell me what was wrong and how to fix what I did wrong. It helped me fix my errors and get my application working in perfect order. People also helped me when I was stuck and helped me with my clear button. They also helped me write out some code too get my application to run better. People online helped me in groups, and it was very good and efficient. I would highly recommend using git hub for any problems people may have with coding. It helps connect the world so we can work together to make revolutionary code. I honestly would not have been able to finish this essay without using git hub, their community and their website honestly helped me so much. Setting up my account was very easy and the whole website was very user friendly. The whole community was very nice and super helpful. 

5.Code
For the code, I implemented a lot of if or else statements. I set the ages to the specifications of when the person died. I also set the ages from zero to twenty as an invalid age. I did the same for the ages 100 onwards. This helped me allocate the specific ages to people as options for possible ages that will give you people or errors as a result. I used strings to give information when you input an age, the strings are shown in the text box and it will return a result, “out of range”, “invalid age” and the person who has the same age as you. I used set on click listener to help make the buttons work. I declared the buttons and added ids to everything and made sure they were all different. After I added comments everywhere explaining what the code did. I made sure that I closed all brackets, curly brackets and the quotation marks. I checked through the code toughly to see if there are any errors as well and that the app ran fine. The generate history button would input your age and give you a valid response according to the if or else statements. The clear button would clear the age that you have previously entered into the applications edit text.

5. Conclusion
The history application was created to help integrate technology and history to create a fun learning experience for young students. Our app combines entertainment and education, we have found it is more effective way of learning when students are having fun. This encourages them to want to learn, as it isn’t like learning from a textbook rather, they are just having fun. The app connects the users to famous dead people through history and provides fun background and quotes that they are remembered by. It has an age comparison feature that is easy to use.  This application will allow students to learn and have fun. Git hub is amazing and it helped me so much with this assignment. Their online community helped me a lot and it was all very easy to use. Without git hub I wouldn’t be able to fix all my errors and get my application working in the first place. 


